By this point in this section of the course you are probably thinking that it couldn't possibly be better
than the way that we graph circles using mesh grid at the end of the last video.
But it's about to get even cooler.
We're gonna make another really cool looking graphics and this time using ellipses and really the whole
idea of learning the formula for an ellipse.
It's just an excuse to make another cool looking minimalistic colorful line drawing.
All right.
So okay this is not the really cool minimalistic colorful line drawing.
This is a little bit of a graph about an ellipse so it's a bit like a circle in the sense that it has
a center.
And here I'm parameter izing that center as h come a K for the X and the y part of the center.
But now instead of having one single radius that is constant everywhere in the ellipse has to set a
two radii.
So a set of radii and they're often called A and B.
And so a is like the radius the x component of the radius and B is the y component of the radius.
Might be a little initially confusing because it looks like B is projecting down to the x axis and A
is projecting over to the y axis.
But really you have to think about B being a distance on the y axis and a being a distance along the
x axis.
All right.
So now here is the formula.
You can see that it's pretty similar to the formula for a circle.
So we still have Y minus K squared plus X minus H squared minus one equals zero.
And now what I would like you to do is imagine what would happen to this equation if a equals b.
So if these two radii were exactly the same.
Well graphically it's clear that if a and b are exactly the same number then we have a circle which
is a special case of an ellipse.
And now imagine that a and b are the same.
So then you could just multiply this whole equation by B squared.
That would get rid of the denominator here get rid of the denominator here.
This would be minus B squared equals zero then you could put the b squared on the other side of this
equation and you would get exactly the formula for a circle.
So the whole point of that was it's interesting to be able to see this formula and connect it to a formula
for a circle in this special case of the Ellipse where the two radius components are equal to each other.
So now I'm going to switch to Python and show you how to implement this formula you will see that it's
not a whole lot different from creating the circle in the previous video.
So let's start by listing the parameters I'll go for H equals 1 k equals 2.
So these are the coordinates for the center of the ellipse and then we have a equals 2 and b equals
3.
And these are the two components of the radius.
So now I'm gonna set up the Axis limit to be the same that I did before for the circles.
So N.P. dot max out the absolute value of H or the absolute value of k except now it's not so simple
as just to say r plus this because now we have two different radius components and we want the maximum
of we want to use the maximum of either these two whichever one is larger.
So then we need another and P that Max call and then it's gonna be a comma.
B So this line of code gets to be a little bit long but I hope you see that it's not such a complicated
mess.
So essentially we're taking the larger of the two radius components and adding that to the larger of
the two ellipse center components.
So then these define the Axis limits so then I'm going to create little vector x is n PS and num pi
dot Lynn space is gonna go minus X limb 2 plus X limb and let's go for one hundred steps by the way
in this and the past several videos I'm using a bunch of parameters like this one hundred steps without
really justifying or motivating it and also without trying other options to see how they compare.
This is the sort of thing that I encourage you to play around with so you can try.
For example 10 you can try.
You know some whatever this number ends up being a million a thousand you know try a bunch of different
numbers and see whether and how that flag affects the resulting plots.
All right.
So a capital X capital Y equals and b that match grid X comma x.
You guys are are basically experts at doing this stuff now.
Okay so let's create the function so f of x and y axis I'm getting bored of calling it X and X and Y.
Let's call this ellipse equals.
So we have X minus H squared divided by a squared.
It's worth pausing for a moment here to consider whether python is going to interpret this equation
in the same way that we intend it to be written.
So we intend that the square goes with this quantity and this square goes with a.
So we don't want Python to interpret it like like this.
So how can we be confident that we're doing the right thing.
Well first of all you can always use parentheses that will immediately increase your confidence but
we can also think about the order of operations and just as a quick reminder.
That was PEM does please excuse my dear and Sally so let's see we want to make sure that exponents R
come are going to come before division.
So here we have exponents and then here we have division.
All right.
So that means that this too is gonna be glued to this term and this too is gonna be glued to a and this
glue is stronger than this glue.
So we are good to go.
All right.
And then we have Y minus K squared divided by B squared.
And that was minus 1.
Okay.
Run that code and we get an error.
Where was the error a la X Lim.
Okay.
There you go.
My favorite kind of programming mistakes are these typos that are easy to find.
I love making those mistakes because they're easy to correct and once they're correct then you know
that you are golden you're good to go.
All right so let's run a contour here so X Y and then e lips and zero just to see how this looks okay.
So the funny thing is that this actually looks like a perfect circle.
Even though it's supposed to be an ellipse and that is because the x axis is much longer than the y
axis even though they're supposed to be the same length.
So you remember from the previous video that we drew a circle and it looked like an ellipse.
Here we drew an ellipse and it looked like a circle.
So BLT dot get current axis dot set underscore aspect.
So that's the aspect ratio and that is going to be equal.
All right.
Now this looks much more like an oval obviously.
Okay.
And I'll draw the dot in the center.
So BLT dot plot and that was h comma K and let's also make this a go a green circle.
Of course there are more bells and whistles that you could add to this plot to spice it up a bit and
make it look a little bit nicer.
But I think you already know how to do that stuff.
For example you know drawing lines here or making a grid putting a title and a legend on it and so on.
So I'm gonna skip all that but of course if you feel motivated to continue working on this then definitely
feel free to do so.
Now when you look at this image I guess that you were thinking Hey Mike I can make a much cooler looking
image than what you have.
And you know what I say back to you.
I challenge you to make a nicer one.
But first before you make a nicer one you have to repeat this exactly.
So I want you to reproduce exactly this image that I've created here and then you can continue making
it nicer and more interesting.
Maybe you want it more minimalistic.
Maybe you want it with different colors but you should start by producing this thing and then move forward.
All right.
So what I did was very K from minus four to plus four and I varied a parameter a from actually plus
for two plus four.
But I set it up to go from minus four to plus four.
And then the absolute value of that.
So that makes a look like a V kind of function.
All right.
So that might be enough information for you to get started and write enough code that will generate
this plot.
If you want a hint I can tell you what the h parameter was and what the B parameter was.
But I'm leaving that covered for the moment.
So if you don't want this hint if you want to figure out what H and B were on your own then.
Now is the time for you to pause the video.
All right.
So here is what I set H and K to be so I set h to be 0 and b to be 4 and that is all I'm going to tell
you.
Now you have to figure the rest out all right.
So let's get started with a fresh sell of code.
So I said that a was linear these space numbers from minus 4 to plus 4 in any steps.
I'll get back to end in a moment and then I took the absolute value of this like this.
This was a.
And then we had a b and this was fixed to four and then H was zero.
And I also very K so that s and P that Lynn space and I went also goes from minus four to plus four
in any step.
So what is this mysterious end here.
So n is actually the number of ellipses that get drawn in total.
So I said that to be 16 and actually you know I'm gonna show you something else that's a little bit
clever.
So I'm going to move H and K up here like this.
And now I can specify a to b just the absolute value of k.
So now we need to create the mesh grid.
So let's say little vector X is going to be.
And Peter Lynn space and here I went from minus 8 to plus 8 in one hundred steps.
So then X comma Y.
So the mesh matrices X and Y are the function mesh grid X comma X okay.
Now I need a for loop that's gonna loop over all of these sixteen ellipses and basically just create
a normal ellipse and plotted with a contour but then changing the values of k and the values of a and
of course the color.
So let's get started.
So for I in range 0 2 n I want the function let's call it big F.
The function is going to be.
So let's see it's X minus H now H does not change divided by a but a actually does change.
So it's not just a squared it's the ISF element of a plus then we have Y minus K squared except now
K just like a is not constant it also varies.
So this is going to be the highest element in K divided by B squared and then B is this number here.
Okay.
And that is also fixed.
And don't forget the minus one it's really important to have that minus one in there.
In fact think of.
I'm even going to take a pause from this for a moment and go back here and show you what happens when
you don't run the minus one or when you forget to include the minus one.
Now this ellipse turns out to be huge you can barely see this part of the ellipse so this is a ginormous
ellipse here.
Okay.
So I mean put that back.
The minus 1 is important BLT.
That contour X comma Y comma f comma zero and let's uh p o t does show.
Let's have a look at this.
All right.
So this is starting to look pretty good.
Let's see.
I'm going to turn the Axis off so plot axis off and also set the uh the Axis aspect ratio to be equal.
Okay so this is looking pretty good.
We just need to set the colors.
So how can we set the colors.
Well I hope you took some time to explore around with this a little bit in the interest of time.
I'm just going to tell you my solution.
So this is I.
Divided by n zero and I divided by n and the idea is that when I is small this basically is black.
So that's the black you see at the bottom.
And then as the eye gets larger and larger it's becoming a larger fraction of one.
But the fraction of green is always staying at zero.
So essentially this is moving towards with each increasing ellipse.
The color moves more towards being 100 percent red and 100 percent blue which is of course the best
color in the world which is purple so in this video you learned the formula for an ellipse.
You learned how to make some cool looking graphics if you would like to show off a little bit.
I encourage that then what you should do is post to the Q and A of this video.
First start off for the picture of this so I can see that you really have solved the exercise successfully.
And then you can show me your alternative which you think is better than mine.
Stay tuned for the next video.
There's going to be another really cool exercise that produces a really nice graphic.